During his first imprisonment in Rome from about 59 to 61 CE, the Apostle Paul was permitted
to stay in his own hired house, though he was constantly guarded by a soldier.
During those two years he preached to everyone who came to him, and he wrote inspired letters
to the Ephesians, Philippians, Colossians, Philemon, and evidently Hebrews, too.
And then Paul was apparently released.
Now he could renew his missionary activity, he could write to Timothy who was serving
an Ephesus and to Titus who was serving on Crete.
Soon though Roman Emperor Nero reportedly blamed Christians for the fire that destroyed
much of Rome, and once again Paul found himself in chains.
After decades of faithful Christian service, the year was 65 CE.
How did Paul feel?
We get our answer by reading from his second letter to Timothy which he wrote from prison.
Turn please to 2 Timothy chapter 4.
Did the men who apprehended Paul carry swords?
No doubt.
Did seeing those swords remind Paul how King Herod a grip of the first had executed
James the brother of John by sword?
We can only imagine.
But from this excerpt from 2 Timothy, we see that Paul sensed that his own execution was
imminent, and we also see something else.
Here we see the three things that strengthened Paul as he faced execution.
Please read with me 2 Timothy chapter 4 verses 6 through 8.
For I am already being poured out like a drink offering, and the time for my releasing
is imminent, that is to say his death which would allow for his eventual resurrection
to Christ's heavenly kingdom.
And verse 7 continues, I have fought the fine fight.
I have run the race to the finish.
The finish.
Yes, Paul sensed that he was approaching a triumphant end to his personal race.
He continues, I have observed the faith.
From this time on, there is reserved for me the crown of righteousness.
And here we see Paul's strong hope.
And he continues, which the Lord.
The righteous judge will give me as a reward in that day.
A can you see Paul's strong relationship with Jehovah in this expression.
His unflagging confidence that God's son would bestow the promised reward.
And then he says, yet not to me only, but also to all those who have loved his manifestation.
Paul loved his Christian brothers, and he didn't forget them.
That's how Paul was able to rejoice, despite the threat of death.
His brothers, his relationship with Jehovah and his hope.
It's not that Paul wanted to die, of course he would have preferred to live on and keep
serving Jehovah together with his Christian brothers and sisters, yet he faced death
with courage.
And he rejoiced in the reward that he knew was reserved for him.
Now like Paul, we too can rejoice, despite the threat of death.
How so?
Let's go back to our theme text in Romans chapter 8 and verse 35.
What is the answer to the two questions Paul poses here, namely, who will separate us
from the love of the Christ, will tribulation or distress or persecution or hunger or
nakedness or danger or sword, the answer is found in verses 38 and 39.
Or I am convinced that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor governments, nor things
now here, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor any other creation,
will be able.
Yes, death is not able to separate us from God's love that is in Christ Jesus our Lord.
A temporary pause in the grave cannot extinguish Jehovah's love for his servants.
Does Jehovah still love Abraham, Isaac and Jacob?
How about Sarah, Rebecca, Joe, Moses, Daniel?
What about all those who have died in prisons and concentration camps on account of their
strong faith?
Does Jehovah still love them?
Of course he does.
And he still loves the hundreds of brothers and sisters who have died in recent months
as a result of COVID-19.
He still loves your grandma, your dad, your sister.
He keeps them in his memory.
He'll call them back to life.
And this fact helps us, dear friends, when we face the threat of death by sword as Paul
did.
Now as you watch the following video, note which specific provisions from Jehovah helped
our brother, Bati Michael Dubbe, to rejoice despite facing the threat of death.
When everything falls apart and when everything around you is chaotic, the one thing you have
is your relationship with Jehovah.
My name is Bati Michael Dubbe.
I was born in Monrovia, Liberia, in 1980.
Growing up in Monrovia before the war was an amazing time.
I had wonderful parents.
We grew up in a nice house and we went to a great school.
When I was nine years old, everything changed overnight.
There was reports of rebels trying to take over the government.
Those reports alone made people panic.
This is started to close down.
Services were shut down.
The lights, the power, the water, everything stopped.
The next few years were really unstable.
In 1996, things again fell apart completely.
It was all out war.
This time the rebels were in the city.
There was a lot of looting going on.
There was a lot of shooting.
The rebels they were known for torture, if people would not agree to fight with them.
In a situation like that, there's a lot of fear.
There's a lot of panic.
And when your fear levels rises, the best way to deal with it is prayer.
Prayer to Jehovah, asking him specifically for directions on what to do next.
As the fighting escalated and it got closer to where we lived, it was no longer safe.
We had to flee and we ended up at the branch office.
Brothers were very loving.
They took really good care of us.
Our spiritual activities, they made sure we kept up with that.
Looking back, I'm very grateful to have survived.
Two things help us get through.
Number one, our relationship with Jehovah.
That's the only thing that keeps you stable.
And then also, we were able to survive because of the help from the brothers and sisters.
Those moments of trial, that's when you really realize how much you need the brotherhood.
I have a lot of joy in my assignment at Bethel with audio video services.
I love the brothers and sisters that I work with.
It's all thanks to Jehovah that I'm alive and I get to serve him every day.
This video reminds us that life in this system of things is fragile.
But did you notice what helped Brother Doug Bay to rejoice despite the threat of death?
It was his relationship with Jehovah and it was his Christian brothers who helped him
to keep his hope alive through regular study, meetings and preaching.
Is it possible that some of us will have to die for our faith?
As many early Christians did and as some modern day witnesses have done?
Yes, we're not guaranteed a trouble-free existence in this system of things.
And there's the very real possibility that we may die by illness, accident or the other
ravages of these last days.
We might die before the New World comes as many of our dear friends already have, or
we may be spared alive through the Great Tribulation.
Either way, we need to be determined to remain faithful to Jehovah right down to the end.
The one who has endured to the end will be saved.
If we assume that the New World will arrive before we die, we may be unprepared to remain
loyal to the death, if necessary.
Similarly, if we assume that the Great Tribulation will not come in our lifetime, we will be unprepared
for its hardships.
The only way to be prepared for either eventuality is to stay spiritually strong and alert.
Keep on the watch, therefore, Jesus said, because you do not know on what day your Lord
is coming.
It's been good for us to consider more closely the Apostle Paul's strong conviction
as expressed in Romans 8, verse 35.
What have we learned from this symposium?
We've seen how Romans 8, verses 35 through 39 assure us that no trial of any sort will
cause Jehovah to stop loving us.
Knowing that we have Jehovah's approval and love, even while under trial, is a key to
rejoicing, despite tribulation, distress, persecution, hunger, nakedness, danger, sword,
or anything else.
Therefore continue to draw closer to the one who loves you so very much.
Strengthen your trust in Jehovah through personal study and prayer.
Keep assuring your heart of his love.
Treasure our precious brotherhood and draw closer to one another.
Bearish your God-given hope and meditate on the real life yet ahead.
And finally, remember the inspired prayer found at Colossians 1-11.
If we continue doing these things dear friends, then like Paul, we will be able to rejoice
despite trials of any sort.
Notice these encouraging words found at Colossians 1-11.
And may you be strengthened with all power according to his glorious might.
Now just how much power is there according to God's glorious might?
We don't have to imagine because his word reveals what Jehovah has accomplished and will
yet accomplish by means of his Holy Spirit, the most powerful force there is, and for
what purpose will he grant you this?
Not simply so that you may endure.
Not merely so that you may endure fully.
Not only so that you may endure fully with patience, but as it says, so that you may
endure fully with patience and joy.
And with that assurance, we can endure despite any trial, no matter how difficult it is,
no matter how long it lasts, because our Father's unfailing love will enable us to rejoice,
with for all eternity and always.